# Public Relations (PR) Specialist Dashboard and Database
## About the Project
We have built a database for a PR package management platform that PR managers can use to efficiently send products to targeted content creators and generate analytical insights. We answer the following three business questions of interest: (1) Which Tiktokers are paid the most? (2) Which Tikoker has the highest quantity of sales? (3) What is the best-selling company?

Adobe defines content creators as “someone who creates entertaining or educational material to be expressed through any medium or channel.” For example, creative individuals could become “Youtuber, ” “Tiktoker,” or an influencer on Instagram. Through these social media platforms, they can create personalized content and gain income through view counts, advertising, and brand contrasts. According to Cision PR Newswire, “the Global Digital Content Creation Market size was estimated to be US$ 11 billion in 2019 and is expected to reach US$ 38.2 billion by 2030 at a CAGR of 12% during 2020 and 2030.” Sending products to be featured by content creators on their platform can potentially increase the sale of the product, while the process itself could be dreary including finding popular content creators, getting their addresses, tracking the shipment status, etc. A blog article from Statusphere suggests that “ the process as a whole can take on average 70 hours of work.”

Given the business potential and to help PR managers market their product more efficiently, we have built a tool that would assist them with sending packages and provide analytical insights. The potential users of our platform are a PR company or any marketing team of a company. The database of such a tool, stores information such as the content creators’ address, contact information, relative product information, whether or not a product has been sent, on what date the product is sent, etc. This information supports the “basic” functionalities of the database that enable the PR managers to automate the package sending process by easily looking up the address of a content creator. While the extended functionalities include tracking how many sales have been made since the product is featured. The supported functionalities and the business questions mentioned above will allow PR companies to make more targeted marketing decisions.
